---
layout: post
title: Testing, not just for microphones
permaLink: /2020-5-18-Testing/
---

There s a really cool Netflix documentary called “The Dawn Wall” which follows two people as they attempt to be the first to free climb a section of the El Capitan cliff face in Yosemite Park. One of the climbers is a former world champion climber with years of experience. He can make it across some sheer surfaces and large overhands like seemingly no other but still is shown slipping up on occasion on the simplest of manoeuvre, relying on the safety cable attached as they climb.

You may be wondering why any of the above matters? Well as I was watching the documentary under a blanket with a beer I considered the similarities to that extreme act of strength and endurance and my own history with software development. 

Despite all of his experience he always climbed with a cable, because no matter how good you get mistakes happen. That caution and sensibility can relate to all manners of life, from wearing a seatbelt too checking a road before crossing. You may survive a risk but is it needed?
 Younger Josh was a risk taker, not with fashion choices or physical activity (he was more of a potato), but with the code he created. 

Trained by intelligent lecturers used to dealing with half interested drunkards I did not know I was a risk taker. Writing code was difficult, trial and error and lots of frantic undoing when it all went wrong. But the criteria for success was written down in the back of my brain or on a disbelieved notepad. What was the point of testing, writing more code just seemed like more hastle.

Looking back now I want to throttle younger Josh. If I could climb back through time and into his student halls I would have the following to tell him (and that absinthe is never a good idea).

--------------
